# Placement-Prediction-using-Data-Mining
Campus placement or campus interview is the program conducted within educational institutes or in a common place to provide jobs to students pursuing or in the stage of completing the programme. In this programme, industries visit the colleges to select students depending on their ability to work, capability, focus and aim.
There are two types of campus placement. They are on-campus and off-campus.

 

The major objective of campus placement is to identify the talented and qualified professionals before they complete their education. It provides employment opportunities to students who are pursuing or in the final stage of completing the course. This process reduces the time for an industry to pick the candidates according to their need. It is a cumbersome activity and hence majority of the companies find it difficult to trace the right talent. Many students do not understand the importance of placement training that is being imparted, whether it is an aptitude training or soft skills. They show the least interest in this due to various factors viz., projects, assignments or more of activities loaded by the colleges as part of their curriculum thinking that it is not useful. It is the responsibility of the companies training on placement to make the students equipped on all aspects of career development along with creating a very good impact in them which makes them feel every minute they spend in the placement training session is worth being there and will help them in getting placed in their dream companies.
Data mining is the process of discovering patterns in large data sets involving methods at the intersection of machine learning, statistics, and database systems. Data mining is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and statistics with an overall goal to extract information (with intelligent methods) from a data set and transform the information into a comprehensible structure for further use. Data mining is the analysis step of the "knowledge discovery in databases" process, or KDD.
Educational data mining refers to techniques, tools, and research designed for automatically extracting meaning from large repositories of data generated by or related to people's learning activities in educational settings. Quite often, this data is extensive, fine-grained, and precise. For example, several learning management systems (LMSs) track information such as when each student accessed each learning object, how many times they accessed it, and how many minutes the learning object was displayed on the user's computer screen. As another example, intelligent tutoring systems record data every time a learner submits a solution to a problem; they may collect the time of the submission, whether or not the solution matches the expected solution, the amount of time that has passed since the last submission, the order in which solution components were entered into the interface, etc. The precision of this data is such that even a fairly short session with a computer-based learning environment (e.g., 30 minutes) may produce a large amount of process data for analysis.
The purpose of higher education organizations has to offer superior education to its students. The proficiency to forecast student’s achievement is valuable in affiliated ways associated with organization education system. Students’ scores which they got in an exam can be used to invent training set to dominate learning algorithms. With the academia attributes of students such as internal marks, lab marks, age etc., it can easily predict their performance. After getting predicted result the performance of the student to engage with desirable assistance to the students will be improved. Educational Data Mining (EDM) offers such information to educational organization from educational data. EDM provides various methods for prediction of student`s performance, which improve the future result of students. In this project, by using the attributes such as academic records, age, and achievement etc., EDM has been used for predicting the performance about placement of final year students. Based on the result, higher education organizations can offer superior education to its students.
The main aim of this project is to identify relevant attributes of student's profile such as CGPA, technical and communication skills and design a model which can predict the placement of a student. For this purpose, Naive Bayes classification technique has been used. The result of this analysis will assist the academic planners to design a strategy to improve the performance of students. 
Weka contains a collection of visualization tools and algorithms for data analysis and predictive modeling, together with graphical user interfaces for easy access to these functions. The original non-Java version of Weka was a Tcl/Tk front-end to (mostly third-party) modeling algorithms implemented in other programming languages, plus data preprocessingutilities in C, and a Makefile-based system for running machine learning experiments. This original version was primarily designed as a tool for analyzing data from agricultural domains, but the more recent fully Java-based version (Weka 3), for which development started in 1997, is now used in many different application areas, in particular for educational purposes and research. Advantages of Weka include:
•	Free availability under the GNU General Public License.
•	Portability, since it is fully implemented in the Java programming language and thus runs on almost any modern computing platform.
•	A comprehensive collection of data preprocessing and modeling techniques.
•	Ease of use due to its graphical user interfaces.
Weka supports several standard data mining tasks, more specifically, data preprocessing, clustering, classification, regression, visualization, and feature selection. All of Weka's techniques are predicated on the assumption that the data is available as one flat file or relation, where each data point is described by a fixed number of attributes (normally, numeric or nominal attributes, but some other attribute types are also supported). Weka provides access to SQL databases using Java Database Connectivity and can process the result returned by a database query. Weka provides access to deep learning with Deeplearning4j. It is not capable of multi-relational data mining, but there is separate software for converting a collection of linked database tables into a single table that is suitable for processing using Weka. Another important area that is currently not covered by the algorithms included in the Weka distribution is sequence modeling.
